What would be a good approach to effectively
what would be a good approach to effectively leading a team where instead of
taking ownership of their responsibilities and working towards team goals,
each team member is just trying to be the boss.
Okay,
so a couple things here.
The e you want to let them be the boss of their tasks,
right?
That's what you're trying to do.
So that,
that makes sense.
And one of the ways,
if they're,
if they want to be the boss of everything,
maybe you give them a little bit more as much decision making process that you
can as to what tasks or what projects they're in charge of.
So that makes them feel a little bit like they're empowered and I shouldn't say
makes them feel like they're empowered.
You actually are in Palo.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
So there's a,
there's a pretty significant distinction because once again,
people will recognize if you're just letting them do it to make them feel good
about it,
they're going to know that.
Yeah.
Okay.
Jocko,
thanks for the decision.
You gave me a choice of one thing.
Thank you.
The color of pants.
Yeah.
So,
so you know,
maybe let them really express their authority and leadership on owning what it
is that they're owning it.
But the question says they're not taking ownership of their responsibilities.
So let's make sure first that we're not,
that we're giving them full reign and full ownership of their responsibilities
and we're not micromanaging in there.
Now,
if that,
if we're beyond that and,
and we got people that just want to be in charge of the whole thing.
Well cool.
That's,
that's actually awesome.
You want to be in charge of everything of Echo isn't in our team and he wants to
be in charge of everything.
Hey guys,
check it out right now.
This next,
you know,
project that we're working,
echo is going to run it.
I'm going to sit back and by the way,
next project bill,
you're running and next project,
Fred,
you're running.
Now we're all going to get to actually get in the hot seat and he,
and I'll tell you what you're going to see.
Number one,
you're gonna see some people that go,
oh,
they wanted to sit in the back of church,
but they don't actually want to be responsible for anything.
So that puts them to rest right away.
You're also,
what's going to happen with everybody is they're all going to see that this
thing that looks so easy from the back of the room is a lot harder than they
think.
That's what it's like running a seal mission.
The guy in the back that's never been in charge before,
is it?
Oh,
we should just do it like this and that guy you said,
okay,
here you run this,
and then you know,
in six hours they come up and say,
Hey,
oh yeah,
you give me a hand with how we were supposed to contact and deconflict with
these other units.
Oh,
okay.
It's a little drunker than you thought.
Maybe isn't it?
But you actually put people in charge of things if they want to be in charge of
things,
put them in charge of things.
It's great.
And you know,
don't let them fall on her face.
Don't let him get anyone killed.
Don't let them,
you know,
get anyone injured or losing any strategic ground.
We're not going to do that,
but we're going to let them have the opportunity to step up and lead it if they
do a good job.
Sweet.
Now you've got them.
You can rely on them.
You can actually put them in charge of projects.
Now you don't have to micromanage them.
You don't have to watch over them.
This is a,
this is a no lose situation.
This happened actually one of my,
one of my platoon was going through training and one of the platoon commanders
came up to me and we're just putting the platoon through training and he comes
up and he's like,
oh,
Mike Platoon chief wants to run everything and is said good.
Let them run everything.
That's perfect.
Then you can focus on,
you know,
other things.
Don't worry about it,
but ego,
right?
We want to be running everything we want the,
I'm the guy in charge.
No,
let him run it.
And it's just,
it's,
it's the,
the reason,
the thing that holds people back from letting other people run things is
insecurity.
If I think echo is going to do a better job than me,
or I think you're gonna do a really good job and you're going to shine and I
don't feel like I do a good job,
I'm going to hold you back as the best of my ability to be like,
no.
I go,
oh,
you go ahead.
You go ahead and just stay in your lane.
They're putting this over here,
you know?
But if I,
if I,
if I know,
if I'm securing my leadership
man Echo,
oh,
you want to run this dude?
Awesome.
Here you go.
Here's the plan.
Once you know,
here's the,
here's the portfolio.
Why don't you put the plan together?
I'm going to be over here looking down the road on their next project and
looking for our next thing down the road,
going out and getting another client to bring into the game.
We're gonna make this app no factor.
Yes.
Seems like counterintuitive,
isn't it?
Yeah,
it is.
You want to,
you want me to say,
here's how you keep the people in their lanes.
Yes,
exactly.
Yeah.
Let me tell you what you do.
Let him out of their lanes.
Let them into your lane,
let him run some stuff.
Build a new leader.
It's a beautiful thing
when
you,
you know,
when you're insecure,
you want,
you don't want them to shout,
shine you,
you know?
You can tell that where I think it's natural though,
you know,
when people maybe a little insecure,
or if you're not as good as maybe you hope or what,
I think it's natural to be a little bit insecure.
Of course.
Here's how,
here's how,
in my experience anyway,
where I could tell where I'm being insecure,
where if someone's performing a certain thing and you're kind of like,
you can feel it consciously,
you kind of hope that they don't do that good.
But man,
that I know of,
that's bad.
It's bad.
But that's how you can tell.
Yeah.
That's how you came to tell you.
If you have that feeling,
oh,
you should.
You should definitely.
If you have that feeling,
check yourself.
Yeah.
Know what here I am hoping that my own team member Nova.
That's passing bad situation real bad.
You want to hope everyone's doing great.
Yeah.
And you know this happened on deployment and I talk about it in the book.
Extreme ownership was,
you know the Delta platoon commander,
he was worried that this element that had come in to work in his AOT,
he was worried that they were going to be better than him and take his job.
And he told me that and I said,
hey bro,
if they take your job,
good,
I'll find a new job for you.
There's so much work we got work to do.
Don't worry about it and help them,
help them take your job and I'll find you a new job.
It turns out that their egos were too big and they couldn't let that happen.
But that's the same situation you've got that thinks going to take your job and
do better than you help them and then find new work.
Mm.
Cause cause we're trying to help the team.
Right.
There's a mission,
there's an overall mission.
And if echo can do something better than me,
hey,
here's the turnover,
here's the lessons I learned.
You'd be better at this than I am.
You keep running with it.
I'm going to go find something that I'm good at or an area that I can help.
That's just supporting the whole team.
That's a window sill and you know what,
sitting in the podcast studio,
it's so easy to talk about that,
but it's so hard for people to do that.
It really is really is one of those things where you're dealing with your actual
feelings in the situation.
We're not dealing with our actual feelings in this situation right now,
but which,
but it doesn't.
That mean that it's good.
You know you're giving a fresh like view.
You are.
Yeah,
you are detached,
accurate advice and the more detached,
and you pointed out some red flags,
right?
If I'm hoping that these guys go on the mission and fail,
that's a red flag that you're being selfish and insecure about your job and what
you're doing and if someone can do a job better than you,
let them do it.
That's going to help.
The whole team.
Yeah.
So it's like your us in the podcast room where like,
you know,
if you get a guy in the maze,
the maze of emotions and we're outside of the mains on top,
we can see the whole maze.
We're not in the maze of emotions.
We're on top.
We can look at the whole scenario,
the whole maze.
So we can tell that guy what to do effectively.
Echo,
you just described detachment.
There you go.
What the attachment is like that.
That's what,
that's what,
that's what it's like for me.
Yeah.
I can see the maze and I remember learning how to step back and step above and
look to maze.
I remember.
Yeah,
I remember learning that and going,
oh that's all you gotta do.
Yeah.
And then I remember taking it from the training ground,
the battlefield and then realizing that that's what you need to do in the
everyday interactions with people.
And especially once I got in the business world,
the thing that was cool about when we started echelon front,
now I would be witnessing,
like we,
I'd go into a meeting and I would be detached.
I would be up above the maze.
Yeah.
Of emotions in turmoil.
And so now I would get to see it and then I would start bringing the leadership
and saying,
look at what this looks like to me.
Know they'd go Google fit.
I don't like that into the video to go into the video and,
and so then that's how you learn.
We didn't go to the video.
Look what it looks like from up above the maze and now you see,
you see what you are doing here in your meeting.
You had everybody so intimidated that no one said anything.
You just gave a 15 minute meeting.
No one responded in any way to anything you said.
Do you think everyone in that room agreed with everything you said?
Not a chance.
They didn't say a word.
Why is that?
You intimidated him,
you bully them and now you're not getting any feedback and they're going to
execute the plan that they don't believe in.
And that's probably less effective than the one that they have come in from the
field.
Yeah.
Congratulations.
No,
not congratulations.
Let's get this fixed.
It of congratulate,
like,
you know,
so,
uh,
I was in the,
in traffic and somebody to think about,
I was in traffic and you know how the,
you have the two lanes,
right?
So I'm going to turn left on the light in the lane next to me.
They're going straight.
So whoever the person in front of the person that was next to me,
both going straight,
they were taking too long.
So the lady next,
she's getting the horn,
Kurt like going like this,
all crazy.
So of course I look over at her and she's going crazy.
She looks over at me.
She's like,
like,
do you believe this kind of thing?
All going nuts.
Meanwhile I'm looking at myself,
you know,
other people around me,
they're just like,
well,
this lady's going nuts,
you know?
So that's an example of being on the outside looking in her.
She thought it was justifiable,
honking the horn,
looking nuts.
But meanwhile,
we're on the outside looking at her like,
by,
you know,
how you look and you know what that situation is.
You didn't have anywhere to be.
She did while I was at a red light shoes,
you know?
You know what I'm saying though?
She's a person that hadn't left for late work late and she was going to be in
trouble and blah,
blah,
blah.
That that 30 set that,
that 10 seconds,
that eight seconds,
it was probably like three maternity for her.
She's just going nuts.
Just like I was talking about in the airport.
If I'm running late for the flight,
TSA takes five minutes.
It could be no factor or it could drive me completely insane meal and that's,
that was her,
and you know what?
These days when I screw something up,
I don't get frustrated like that.
You know?
That's what we're talking about.
The first question,
I'm like,
oh my God,
I look at myself and God,
I can't believe I left late.
Yeah,
do this.
I'm an idiot.
Yeah.
I won't let that happen again.
I said that in 1996 and I haven't had to let it happen,
so
see what I mean though?
I was outside.
The main thing.
I know she,
I know she's feeling,
oh,
these guys not going to go green light go.
It's time to go.
Universal.
Yeah.
So I understand the feeling,
but look how you look from the outside.
You know,
did she check herself at all?
No.
When she saw,
you know,
she looked at,
to me for some emotional support as if you believe this guy,
you know,
get crazy with me kind of thing.
That was the look.
Yeah,
man.
It's like,
dig it.
That's,
I think that's another,
uh,
understand the difference between feeling and behavior as well.
You know,
like I feel,
I know that's a frustrating thing.
It can be.
Don't behave like that.
Calm down.